

Philippine Cockatoo
- Due to rampant poaching, the Philippine Cockatoo, also known as the "Katala", is critically
endangered. They can only be found on Rasa Island, Palawan in a sanctuary guarded by ex-poachers who
are also from the indigenous group Tagbanua. In fact, because these birds would be sold for 50 pesos a head
years ago, the numbers of Katala dropped to 23 heads. Today there are around 300 Katalas left.


Visayan Warty Pig

- The Visayan warty pig is one of the most endangered species of wild pig, being
extinct in over 95% of its former range and now found only in small populations.
There are no recent published estimates of population numbers in the wild. Due to habitat destruction,
  and intensive hunting for meat - there is a great reduction to the numbers of Visayan
   warty pigs and their potential to maintain their numbers by
   reducing available resources. Moreover, domestic pigs pose a
   significant threat to this species, through hybridizing with wild warty pigs as well as
   introducing diseases and parasites.


Philippine Spotted Deer

- The Philippine spotted deer is a nocturnal animal and one of the three
endemic species of deer in the country. They are currently found in the rainforests
in the islands of Negros and Panay. Although there are conservation efforts being done to preserve this speices,
only an estimated 300 spotted deers are still in the wild. Local wildlife groups
and conservationists are poorly funded and face very little support from government.

Sulu Hornbill

- Of the 32 Hornbill species in Asia, there are 3 critically endangered hornbill species in the whole world with the most rare of the three, the Sulu
Hornbill in imminent danger of extinction because of the lack of conservation efforts, illegal hunting, illegal wildlife trade, and deforestation.
The Sulu hornbill also known as the “tawsi” is endemic to the islands in the Sulu Archipelago between Mindanao and Borneo.
After its discovery in 1880, the population has crashed. In 2018, it is said that there are only 40 individuals left.

Mindoro Zone-Tailed Pigeon

- Because of deforestation and loss of habitat, the Mindoro Zone-Tailed Pigeon or the Mindoro
Imperial Pigeon, has become critically endangered with only 1000 to 2500 individuals left. It is
endemic to the mountains of Mindoro. This species is rare and uncommon, but known to be found more
easily in Mount Ilong and Mount Halcon.
